---
title: "Getting Envoy to pick up rotated certificates"
date: 2020-04-26
author: "Jonathan Rockway"
tags: ["envoy", "kubernetes", "tls", "cert-manger"]
showFullContent: false
---

Like many people, I use [cert-manager](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager) to automatically
renew my website's TLS certificates with [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). Unlike many
people, I don't use an Ingress controller to get traffic into my cluster, I just have a few
instances of [Envoy](https://envoyproxy.io) that terminate TLS and route traffic to the appropriate
backend. Cert-manager handles the mechanics of certificate renewal very efficiently; it runs a
controller loop that checks all my `Certificate` objects for expiration, and when a certificate is
close to expiring, it goes out and renews it. It then updates a Kubernetes Secret with the new key
material, and Kubernetes then makes that new data available to pods that have mounted the Secret as
a volume. From there, it's up to the application to notice that some symlinks have moved around and
reload the certificate. Up until very recently, Envoy did not bother to check. So at some point, you
had to do a rolling restart of the Envoy deployment to pick up the new certificate. Because there is
30 days between when cert-manager renews the certificate and when the old certificate actually
expired, this was rarely a problem in practice. If any of your machines went down, or you edited the
config file to add a new route, or you upgraded Envoy itself, the pod containing Envoy would
restart, pick up the new certificates, and you'd never notice that it wasn't automatically reloading
the certificate.

As someone who doesn't like to leave important production operations to chance, though, I knew I
needed a better system. Fortunately, Envoy added a way to reload certificates with the 1.14 release.
Let's try that.

## The mechanics

Everyone's Envoy configuration is different, so I'm just going to provide a very minimal
`envoy.yaml` that we'll modify to make certs automatically reload. You can then apply this to your
own configuration. (You can experiment with this on your workstation by building Envoy, or
extracting the binary from a Docker image with `docker cp`. That's what I do for all my local Envoy
work. Although Envoy does not distribute binaries, the binary from the Docker image works great on
my Ubuntu 19.10 workstation.)

Here is a basic `envoy.yaml` that serves HTTPS on port 10000 with a static response:

    static_resources:
        listeners:
            - name: test
              address:
                  socket_address:
                      protocol: TCP
                      address: 127.0.0.1
                      port_value: 10000
              listener_filters:
                  - name: "envoy.listener.tls_inspector"
                    typed_config: {}
              filter_chains:
                  - tls_context:
                        common_tls_context:
                            alpn_protocols: ["h2", "http/1.1"]
                            tls_certificates:
                                - certificate_chain:
                                      filename: "/certs/tls.crt"
                                  private_key:
                                      filename: "/certs/tls.key"
                    filters:
                        - name: envoy.http_connection_manager
                          typed_config:
                              "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager
                              stat_prefix: test
                              route_config:
                                  virtual_hosts:
                                      - name: test
                                        domains: ["*"]
                                        routes:
                                            - match: { prefix: "/" }
                                              direct_response:
                                                  status: 200
                                                  body:
                                                      inline_string: "Hello from Envoy"
                              http_filters:
                                  - name: envoy.router

Put your TLS key and cert in `/certs`, and `curl https://localhost:10000/` will return "Hello from
Envoy". It works. You can do whatever you want to `/certs` and Envoy will keep using the TLS
configuration that it loaded at startup.

To fix that, we need to make the TLS context for our listener use
[SDS](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/security/secret) instead of a static
configuration.

The first step is to create another config file that contains information about the secret
discovery. I put my main `envoy.yaml` in a ConfigMap that gets mounted into `/etc/envoy`, and just
added a `sds.yaml` to that ConfigMap to store the SDS configuration. All it is is a plaintext
representation of what an SDS API server would serve to Envoy, if it was getting the key material
from a server and not the filesystem. It looks like:

    resources:
        - "@type": "type.googleapis.com/envoy.api.v2.auth.Secret"
          tls_certificate:
              certificate_chain:
                  filename: "/certs/tls.crt"
              private_key:
                  filename: "/certs/tls.key"

While this looks almost exactly what we put in the main `envoy.yaml` before, this is what triggers
the code to start watching various directories for changes with inotify and lead to the eventual
refreshing of your certificate. We also need to make some changes to `envoy.yaml` itself. Instead of
statically configuring the listener with a certificate, we need the listener to load the certificate
from SDS. In the listener's `filter_chains` section, we'll change the `tls_context` to a more
general `transport_socket`, and then point it at our `sds.yaml`. (It is not necessary to convert
`tls_context` to `transport_socket`, but `tls_context` will be gone by the end of the year, so you
might as well change it now.)

So now instead of

    listeners:
        - name: test
          ...
          filter_chains:
              - transport_socket:
            - tls_config: {...}

We'll have:

    listeners:
        - name: test
          ...
          filter_chains:
              - transport_socket:
                    name: "envoy.transport_sockets.tls"
                    typed_config:
                        "@type": "type.googleapis.com/envoy.api.v2.auth.DownstreamTlsContext"
                        common_tls_context:
                            alpn_protocols: ["h2", "http/1.1"]
                            tls_certificate_sds_secret_configs:
                                sds_config:
                                    path: /etc/envoy/sds.yaml
                filters: [...]

Using SDS also activates other parts of Envoy's code that wants Envoy to have some identifying
information associated with the node. You can supply that on the command line, or in the bootstrap
config; with a `node` configuration at the top level:

    node:
        id: test
        cluster: test

If you omit this, you'll get an error like:

    TlsCertificateSdsApi: node 'id' and 'cluster' are required. Set it either in 'node' config or via --service-node and --service-cluster options.

(In production, I use "envoy" for the ID and "ingress:public:https" as the cluster name. That is
what my [cluster discovery service](https://github.com/jrockway/ekglue/) calls my cluster. It
doesn't matter for this, but it does matter for other things. You probably already have this set
up.)

The result is a final `envoy.yaml` that looks like:

    node:
        id: test
        cluster: test
    static_resources:
        listeners:
            - name: test
              address:
                  socket_address:
                      protocol: TCP
                      address: 127.0.0.1
                      port_value: 10000
              listener_filters:
                  - name: "envoy.listener.tls_inspector"
                    typed_config: {}
              filter_chains:
                  - transport_socket:
                        name: "envoy.transport_sockets.tls"
                        typed_config:
                            "@type": "type.googleapis.com/envoy.api.v2.auth.DownstreamTlsContext"
                            common_tls_context:
                                alpn_protocols: ["h2", "http/1.1"]
                                tls_certificate_sds_secret_configs:
                                    sds_config:
                                        path: /etc/envoy/sds.yaml
                    filters:
                        - name: envoy.http_connection_manager
                          typed_config:
                              "@type": type.googleapis.com/envoy.config.filter.network.http_connection_manager.v2.HttpConnectionManager
                              stat_prefix: test
                              route_config:
                                  virtual_hosts:
                                      - name: test
                                        domains: ["*"]
                                        routes:
                                            - match: { prefix: "/" }
                                              direct_response:
                                                  status: 200
                                                  body:
                                                      inline_string: "Hello from Envoy"
                              http_filters:
                                  - name: envoy.router

With that running, your certificates should be used as soon as they are renewed!

There is a delay between a secret being updated and the volume mount changing, controlled by your
cluster administrator (it's a parameter to the Kubelet) -- if you are watching the Kubernetes event
log or cert-manager's log, you might not see the new certificate as soon as you think it's ready,
but it should be available on the order of 5 minutes later.

Envoy also prints some logs at the `debug` level:

    [2020-04-26 18:41:04.243][23137][debug][file] [source/common/filesystem/inotify/watcher_impl.cc:72] notification: fd: 1 mask: 80 file: ..data
    [2020-04-26 18:41:04.243][23137][debug][file] [source/common/filesystem/inotify/watcher_impl.cc:88] matched callback: directory: ..data
    [2020-04-26 18:41:04.243][23137][debug][config] [source/extensions/transport_sockets/tls/ssl_socket.cc:678] Secret is updated.
    [2020-04-26 18:41:04.245][23137][debug][file] [source/common/filesystem/inotify/watcher_impl.cc:88] matched callback: directory: ..data

Be aware that debug logging is not on by default; you'll have to turn it on if you want to watch
this happen the first time. In general, the way that I check that it worked is by looking at the
`/certs` admin API endpoint, or by the `server.days_until_first_cert_expiring` stat (which you
should be feeding into your monitoring).

## The details

When I read the changelog for Envoy 1.14, I knew I wanted to try this feature, but I also assumed
that it wouldn't be a simple cut-n-paste job to get it working. In retrospect, I was wrong; it was
actually simple to get working since it was designed to exactly work with Kubernetes's filesystem
structure, and I happen to deploy on Kubernetes. I wrote a
[little test program](https://github.com/jrockway/cert-rotation-test), to try things out on my
workstation before blindly forging ahead in production. This ended up taking quite a bit of time and
did not work initially.

The first version of my code assumed that the atomic updating would work like the rest of Envoy
(through its [Runtime](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/operations/runtime)
configuration) -- i.e., put your certificates in some directory, and symlink another directory (call
it `data`) to that. Your certs are then in `/whatever/data/tls.key` and `/whatever/data/tls.crt`,
and `/whatever/data` is just a symlink to `/somewhere/20190401-certs`. When you want the
certificates to rotate, you symlink the new directory to `.tmp` or something, and then atomically
replace `data` with `.tmp`, `mv -Tf .tmp data`.

However, Envoy does not recognize that sequence for certificates. It requires you to do the exact
dance that Kubernetes does, which involves two levels of symlinks. If you have a volume mount
`/certs`, then the current version of your Kubernetes secret is actually stored in
`/certs/..timestamp` (where timestamp is actually something like `2020_04_09_17_25_30.145602340`).
So you'll have `/certs/..timestamp/tls.key`, etc., as a normal file. This current timestamp is then
linked to a directory called `..data`. Finally, `/certs/tls.key` (and friends), are linked to
`..data/tls.key`. When a data update arrives, the files are written to a new `..timestamp`
directory, and the `..data` symlink is atomically replaced. This is close to what I did in the first
version of my program, but not exactly the same. As a result, Envoy did not notice any changes my
program made. I changed my program to do exactly what Kubernetes does, and then it started working.
Now that program exists so you can test locally without having to understand the details ;)

Here is the `ls` output of that sort of directory structure:

    # ls -laR jrock.us
    jrock.us:
    total 4
    drwxrwxrwt 3 root root  140 Apr  9 17:25 .
    drwxr-xr-x 1 root root 4096 Apr  9 17:25 ..
    drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  100 Apr  9 17:25 ..2020_04_09_17_25_30.145602340
    lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root   31 Apr  9 17:25 ..data -> ..2020_04_09_17_25_30.145602340
    lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root   13 Apr  9 17:25 ca.crt -> ..data/ca.crt
    lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root   14 Apr  9 17:25 tls.crt -> ..data/tls.crt
    lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root   14 Apr  9 17:25 tls.key -> ..data/tls.key

    jrock.us/..2020_04_09_17_25_30.145602340:
    total 8
    drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  100 Apr  9 17:25 .
    drwxrwxrwt 3 root root  140 Apr  9 17:25 ..
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root    0 Apr  9 17:25 ca.crt
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 3558 Apr  9 17:25 tls.crt
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1679 Apr  9 17:25 tls.key

Looking at the tests in the [PR](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/pull/10163/files) where this
feature was introduced was helpful, as is the
[related ticket](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/9359). (It didn't make sense to me until
I just `kubectl exec`'d into a container and ran `ls -laR` on a mounted secret, though. If you are
implementing something similar, I recommend doing that. I would also greatly appreciate a link to
the code in Kubernetes that manages this. I spent about 20 minutes looking, but couldn't find it,
which annoys me.)

## Conclusion

In the end, this was a very simple change. Here's all I needed to do for my own personal site:
https://github.com/jrockway/jrock.us/commit/3d986f6322b54ebce00b95079b534c5fa116bf86

Anyway, I hope this is helpful to someone. I am glad I no longer have to care about certificates,
and hopefully you don't have to either!
